Feature/release notes 1.61 (#140)
genestack/user-docs: docs/release-notes/v1.60-v1.69.md

* Full audit trail (Audit Logs + Version History entry; see Section 2).

#### 2. Who Can Transfer Ownership

Ownership transfer can be initiated under the following rules:

| Initiator                                                    | Conditions                      | Allowed? | Notes                                               |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|:--------:| --------------------------------------------------- |
| Current Study Owner                                          | Always                          |   Yes    | Owner can transfer regardless of other permissions. |
| User with **Manage organisation** *and* **Access all data**  | Study is *not* shared with user |   Yes    | Designed for super‑admin use cases.                 |
| User with **Manage organisation** (with access to the Study) | Study is shared with user       |   Yes    | Covers org‑level admins who can see the Study.      |
| Any other user                                               | —                               |    No    | Not permitted.                                      |

Additional rules:

> * Target must be **another active user** (cannot transfer to self; cannot transfer to deactivated accounts).

Reviewer: >cannot transfer to self

Let's maybe rephrase this? because admin can transfer ownership to himself, so ownership can't be transferred to the same owner

Author: Updated

* Transfers are one‑Study‑at‑a‑time in this release (no bulk multi‑Study transfer UI).

#### 3. Transfer Workflow (UI)

1. Navigate to the Study menu.

> 2. Select **Transfer ownership** (visible if you meet transfer criteria above).

Reviewer: To find this option user should hover on owner option in the study menu

Author: Updated

3. Choose the new owner from the active‑user list (searchable dropdown).
4. Review confirmation dialog showing:

    * Current owner
    * New owner
    * Access impact summary (new owner gains full access; previous owner loses unless shared)
    * Cascade notice: applies to all Study objects & versions.
5. Confirm to execute transfer.
6. Owner field updates immediately.

#### 4. Access Changes After Transfer

* **New owner** receives full access to the Study and all related objects (all versions).
* **Previous owner** loses access *unless* the Study is explicitly shared back to them.

#### 5. Ownership Transfer History in Metadata Versioning

Each transfer generates a Changing Ownership historical entry, similar to entries in Study’s metadata Version History:

**Captured:** Previous Owner • New Owner • Initiating User • Date & Time.

**Display Examples:**

* *Ownership transferred — From `User A` to `User B` by `User C` on 2025‑07‑18 14:32 UTC.*

> * *Ownership transferred — `User A` transferred ownership to `User B` on 2025‑07‑18 14:32 UTC.* (self‑transfer)

Reviewer: self‑transfer -> transfer by current owner?

Author: Updated

    **Admins** - users who manage the organization in ODM, including overseeing users, groups, and permissions. 
    They are also responsible for creating, defining, and editing metadata templates as needed.

## 1.61

### Study Ownership Transfer via GUI

Historically, changing the owner of a Study required a manual MySQL script. The new GUI workflow enables safe,
auditable ownership transfer directly in the application.

#### 1. What’s New

* Transfer Study ownership from within the UI.

> * Bulk propagation: ownership cascades to all Study‑scoped objects (Study, SLP, all associated data objects and their versions).

Reviewer: I'm not sure that users will understand what SLP means, let's maybe use full names?

Reviewer: btw may I please ask, what do you mean under "and their versions"?

Author: Described SLP, removed info about versions

* Automatic permission realignment (new owner gets full access; previous owner’s access reevaluated).
* Full audit trail (Audit Logs + Version History entry; see Section 2).

#### 2. Who Can Transfer Ownership

Ownership transfer can be initiated under the following rules:

| Initiator                                                    | Conditions                                            | Allowed? | Notes                                               |
|--------------------------------------------------------------| ----------------------------------------------------- |:--------:| --------------------------------------------------- |
| Current Study Owner                                          | Always                                                |   Yes    | Owner can transfer regardless of other permissions. |

> | User with **Manage organisation** *and* **Access all data**  | Study is *not* shared OR user otherwise has access    |   Yes    | Designed for super‑admin use cases.                 |

Reviewer 2: "Study is *not* shared OR user otherwise has access" - sounds unclear to me

Reviewer: I agree, let's maybe say that "If study isn't shared but because of the "Access all data" permission user still has access"?

Author: Changed to Study is *not* shared with user

> | User with **Manage organisation** (with access to the Study) | If initiator already has Study access through sharing |   Yes    | Covers org‑level admins who can see the Study.      |

Reviewer: Sounds a bit weird these rows about admins, maybe we can clarify that the first one is actual when study isn't shared with the used and the second one is actual when study is shared?

Author: Updated

| Any other user                                               | —                                                     |    No    | Not permitted.                                      |

Additional rules:

* Target must be **another active user** (cannot transfer to self; cannot transfer to deactivated accounts).
* Transfers are one‑Study‑at‑a‑time in this release (no bulk multi‑Study transfer UI).

#### 3. Transfer Workflow (UI)

1. Navigate to the Study menu.

> 2. Select **Change Owner** (visible if you meet transfer criteria above).

Reviewer: **Change Owner** -> Transfer ownership

Author: Updated

3. Choose the new owner from the active‑user list (searchable dropdown).
4. Review confirmation dialog showing:

    * Current owner
    * New owner
    * Access impact summary (new owner gains full access; previous owner loses unless shared)
    * Cascade notice: applies to all Study objects & versions.
5. Confirm to execute transfer.
6. Owner field updates immediately.

#### 4. Access Changes After Transfer

* **New owner** receives full access to the Study and all related objects (all versions).

> * **Previous owner** loses access *unless* the Study (or specific objects) are explicitly shared back to them.

Reviewer: We can't share specific objects, it's something about future I believe

Author: Updated

> * Standard sharing rules apply post‑transfer; admins can re‑grant access as needed.

Reviewer: Sorry, what does it mean?

Author: My bad, I wanted to say, that previous owner loses everything and general sharing functionality is applied to them until the ownership is not granted again. I removed this because of confusion

#### 5. Ownership Transfer History in Metadata Versioning

> Each transfer generates a new entry in the Study’s metadata Version History:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each transfer generates a Changing Ownership historical entry, similar to entries in Study’s metadata Version History:
```
